README.md, before:

# Wannier.jl

[![Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-stable-blue.svg)](https://qiaojunfeng.github.io/Wannier.jl/stable)
[![Dev](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-dev-blue.svg)](https://qiaojunfeng.github.io/Wannier.jl/dev)
[![CI](https://github.com/qiaojunfeng/Wannier.jl/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/qiaojunfeng/Wannier.jl/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)
[![Aqua QA](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JuliaTesting/Aqua.jl/master/badge.svg)](https://github.com/JuliaTesting/Aqua.jl)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/qiaojunfeng/Wannier.jl/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=J2c9HRdk59)](https://codecov.io/gh/qiaojunfeng/Wannier.jl)
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)
[![Code Style: Blue](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-blue-4495d1.svg)](https://github.com/invenia/BlueStyle)

**A playground for experimentation with Wannier functions (WFs).**

## Features

- Wannierization

  - maximal localization for isolated bands, e.g. insulators
  - disentanglement for entangled bands, e.g. metal
  - parallel transport gauge
  - split valence and conduction WFs
    - automated initial projection for valence or conduction WFs
  - constrain WF center

- Interpolation of operators, e.g. band structure
- Real space WFs

  - output `xsf` or `cube` file
  - evaluate operators in real space

## Installation

Install with the Julia package manager [Pkg](https://pkgdocs.julialang.org/),
just like any other registered Julia package:

```jl
pkg> add Wannier  # Press ']' to enter the Pkg REPL mode.
```

or

```jl
julia> using Pkg; Pkg.add("Wannier")
```

### CLI

Additionally, there is a command line interface

```bash
julia --project deps/build.jl install  # install CLI
```

The executable will be installed in ```~/.julia/bin/wannier```.
After appending `~/.julia/bin` to your `$PATH`, you can use the CLI as follows:

```bash
$ wannier -h


  wannier v0.1.0

Julia package for Wannier functions.

Usage

  wannier <command>
...
```

Note since julia needs precompilation of the code, there will be some delay when running the CLI.

## Usage

For example, running a maximal localization can be easily achieved by

```jl
using Wannier

model = read_w90("silicon")
U = max_localize(model)
write_amn("silicon.amn", U)
```

For a much more detailed overview, please see
[the User Guide documentation](https://qiaojunfeng.github.io/Wannier.jl/stable/user/).

## Development

- clone repo: `git clone https://github.com/qiaojunfeng/Wannier.jl`
- install pre-commit: `pre-commit install`
- test:

  ```bash
  julia --project=.  # start REPL
  ]                  # activate Pkg mode
  test               # run tests
  ```

## Contributing

The code initially started with Antoine Levitt's repo
[wannier](https://github.com/antoine-levitt/wannier), and went through a series of
refactorization, bug fixes, and feature additions.

This is a research code mainly for development and testing.
Issues and pull requests are welcome!

Commit message:

Move docs into WannierDocs.jl
https://github.com/qiaojunfeng/WannierDocs.jl

README.md, after:

# Wannier.jl

[![Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-stable-blue.svg)](https://qiaojunfeng.github.io/Wannier.jl/stable)
[![Dev](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-dev-blue.svg)](https://qiaojunfeng.github.io/Wannier.jl/dev)
[![CI](https://github.com/qiaojunfeng/Wannier.jl/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/qiaojunfeng/Wannier.jl/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)
[![Aqua QA](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JuliaTesting/Aqua.jl/master/badge.svg)](https://github.com/JuliaTesting/Aqua.jl)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/qiaojunfeng/Wannier.jl/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=J2c9HRdk59)](https://codecov.io/gh/qiaojunfeng/Wannier.jl)
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)
[![Code Style: Blue](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-blue-4495d1.svg)](https://github.com/invenia/BlueStyle)

**A playground for experimentation with Wannier functions (WFs).**

## Features

- Wannierization

  - maximal localization for isolated bands, e.g. insulators
  - disentanglement for entangled bands, e.g. metal
  - parallel transport gauge
  - split valence and conduction WFs
    - automated initial projection for valence or conduction WFs
  - constrain WF center

- Interpolation of operators, e.g. band structure
- Real space WFs

  - output `xsf` or `cube` file
  - evaluate operators in real space

## Installation

Install with the Julia package manager [Pkg](https://pkgdocs.julialang.org/),
just like any other registered Julia package:

```jl
pkg> add Wannier  # Press ']' to enter the Pkg REPL mode.
```

or

```jl
julia> using Pkg; Pkg.add("Wannier")
```

### CLI

Additionally, there is a command line interface

```bash
julia --project deps/build.jl install  # install CLI
```

The executable will be installed in ```~/.julia/bin/wannier```.
After appending `~/.julia/bin` to your `$PATH`, you can use the CLI as follows:

```bash
$ wannier -h


  wannier v0.1.0

Julia package for Wannier functions.

Usage

  wannier <command>
...
```

Note since julia needs precompilation of the code, there will be some delay when running the CLI.

## Usage

For example, running a maximal localization can be easily achieved by

```jl
using Wannier

model = read_w90("silicon")
U = max_localize(model)
write_amn("silicon.amn", U)
```

For a much more detailed overview, please see
[the User Guide documentation](https://qiaojunfeng.github.io/Wannier.jl/stable/user/).

## Development

- clone repo: `git clone https://github.com/qiaojunfeng/Wannier.jl`
- install pre-commit: `pre-commit install`
- test:

  ```bash
  julia --project=.  # start REPL
  ]                  # activate Pkg mode
  test               # run tests
  ```

### Documentation

The docs are maintained in a dedicated repo [WannierDocs.jl](https://github.com/qiaojunfeng/WannierDocs.jl).
This allows us to add large tutorial files (e.g. `amn`, `mmn`) without bloating the main repo.
Furthermore, it also contains the docs for another two packages:

- [WannierIO.jl](https://github.com/qiaojunfeng/WannierIO.jl) for reading and writing files
- [WannierPlots.jl](https://github.com/qiaojunfeng/WannierPlots.jl) for plotting band structure, etc.

## Contributing

The code initially started with Antoine Levitt's repo
[wannier](https://github.com/antoine-levitt/wannier), and went through a series of
refactorization, bug fixes, and feature additions.

This is a research code mainly for development and testing.
Issues and pull requests are welcome!
